Before creating Heroku app make sure
that you're in your Laravel project.
In my case I am in code Laravel laravel-qa. If you're
using Visual Studio code editor and prefer to use
integrated terminal
then you're ready to go.
Okay to create new Heroku application using heroku cli
we can say heroku create followed by a unique name
in my case I'll call it laravueqa and I hope this name is available.
So I can use this name
in this case. But if you're trying to enter the same
name it will be failed because as I said the name
should be unique and this name will be using
as free domain name generated by Heroku.
So as you can see here my applications domain
is laravueqa  dot heroku app dot com.
If you need to custom the domain you
can check out this link for more information.
The heroku create command also added
new remote URL to our current directory.
So if we type git remote -v and then hit return
Now we'll find four remote URLs.
Two URLs with name heroku are remote URLs added
by heroku create command and are used to push
or fetch our repository to Heroku. And two URLs with
the name origin are remote URLs to push or fetch
to our repository to github.
Now before we actually push our code to Heroku
let's do one more thing. We need to create
a file called proc file. Before do that
make sure you're in master branch
and then here
let's create the procfile by saying echo web colon vendor
forward slash bin forward slahs heroku dash php
dash apache two space public forward
slash greater than symbol profile
this command may only works in UNIX
environment such as Mac or Linux.
If you're using Windows this command might be not work.
The alternative way is in your editor
just create a new file called procfile and inside that file just write
this command.
So this command simply instruct Heroku to run our
Laravel application by making use Apache web server
and pointing the document root to public sub-directory
because by default Heroku will launch our
application from the root directory of our project.
All right now let's commit our profile to our repo: git add Procfile
and then git commit -m "Add Procfile for Heroku".
Now let's push our code
In this case our master branch to Heroku:  git push heroku master.
This will take a few seconds or so
depending on your internet speed.
Once it done we can copy our application's URL and
then paste in our browser. Or we can simply say
heroku open. This command will open up our
default browser and enter the application's URL
here our app appears
but it shows us an error message.
Don't worry
I think this is a good progress. In the following lessons
We'll do a couple of things to make our application really working.